# Processing Fishery Mapping data and benthic assessment to support spatial prioritization of fishery replenishment areas with marxan in Tambatu, Zanzibar.
The scripts in this repository are designed to prepare input files for marxan based on shapefiles produced from mapping of fishing grounds (Fishery Patterns Mapping, FPM) and shapefiles of benthic substrate resulting from ecological scoping (Benthic Ecological Scoping, BES). The binary for MARXAN is the ran through a script to vary the boundary lenght modifier (BLM) factor. The repository also contains scripts for plotting the results. The main scripts are then: make_cost_function.py, make_features.py and run_marxan.py. All supporting files are in the inputData folder. Links to the input files in the scripts need to be updated to the local configuration.

make_cost_function.py - this script converts the shapefiles from the FPM work for each gear into a raster file. Effort is integrated using number of fishing gears and fishers involved in the fishery using data from the National Frame Survey. Overalapping layers are integrate spatially to produce maps of total effort across gears and seasons. For more details on how weights are calculated, refer to the presentation in the repository. This script also creates the bound.dat file needed by marxan to connect neighbouring cells.

make_features.py - this script generates feature files for marxan from the BES. Data from the BES comes in a gridded shapefile at variable resolution between 500m and 1000m. The data is interpolated to a regular grid of 500m. The same grid is used for the cost function. This script also produces layers for presence/absence of marine mammals, sharks and rays and sea turtles calculated from the FPM.

run_marxan.py - once the previous scripts are ran, this scripts call the binary file for marxan passing variable values of the BLM.
